# world-dev-indicators
This paper studies global development indicators, specifically Corruption Control (CorControl). It used, multiple regression analysis to clarify and project corruption control based on various global development indicators. The research methodologically selects the optimal model using the Akaike Information Criterion (AIC) and uses inverse stepwise selection. The resulting regression model incorporates several predictors representing different global growth indicators, with coefficients estimated through ordinary least squares. The assumptions of linearity, independence, homoscedasticity and normality of the residuals were rigorously tested to validate the reliability of the model. The overall significance of the model was assessed using an F-test, while the significance of individual predictors was assessed using t-tests for the regression coefficients.


In addition, the study assesses the differences in the Stability Policy between the categorical predictors "Fertility Category" (FertCat) and "Inflation Category" (InflCat), defined in Section 1, using analysis of variance (ANOVA). ANOVA distinguishes whether there are significant differences in the means of the Policy Stability between the groups defined by each categorical predictor. The variability of Stability Policy is analysed by partitioning it into components within and between groups. The control function F, calculated as the ratio of the between-group mean square to the within-group mean square, tests the null hypothesis of equal group means. A significant F test indicates differences between group means, implying a significant effect of the categorical predictor on political stability. Tukey's post-hoc Honestly Significant Difference (HSD) tests were conducted to identify specific group differences.

 
*Key words:* World Development Indicators, Linear regression, Model selection, Corruption elasticity, Normal Multiple Linear Model.
